\section{Introduction}
% Computer Society journal papers do something a tad strange with the very first
% section heading (almost always called "Introduction"). They place it ABOVE the
% main text! IEEEtran.cls currently does not do this for you.  However, You can
% achieve this effect by making LaTeX jump through some hoops via something
% like:
%
%\ifCLASSOPTIONcompsoc \noindent\raisebox{2\baselineskip}[0pt][0pt]%
%{\parbox{\columnwidth}{\section{Introduction}\label{sec:introduction}%
%\global\everypar=\everypar}}% \vspace{-1\baselineskip}\vspace{-\parskip}\par
%\else \section{Introduction}\label{sec:introduction}\par \fi
%
% Admittedly, this is a hack and may well be fragile, but seems to do the trick
% for me. Note the need to keep any \label that may be used right after \section
% in the above as the hack puts \section within a raised box.



% The very first letter is a 2 line initial drop letter followed by the rest of
% the first word in caps (small caps for compsoc).
% 
% form to use if the first word consists of a single letter:
% \IEEEPARstart{A}{demo} file is ....
% 
% form to use if you need the single drop letter followed by normal text
% (unknown if ever used by IEEE): \IEEEPARstart{A}{}demo file is ....
% 
% Some journals put the first two words in caps: \IEEEPARstart{T}{his demo} file
% is ....
% 
% Here we have the typical use of a "T" for an initial drop letter and "HIS" in
% caps to complete the first word.
%\IEEEPARstart{T}{his}

At 6:15 pm on the 3rd of January, 2009 UTC Satoshi Nakamoto (a pseudonym)
created and announced block of data known as the Genesis Block of the Bitcoin
block chain\cite{satoshi}. With this block, the first 50 units of the
decentralised peer to peer currency Bitcoin were created.  This currency was
described by Satoshi in his 2008 paper

Now over ten million bitcoins have been generated, and are currently trading at
\input{price}.

The key difference between bitcoin and other digital currencies such as e-gold
or PayPal is that it does not have a central authority, transactions are
irreversible, and transactions can be made pseudo anonymously.  The bitcoin
protocol allows multiple different clients to connect, verify and disseminate
transactions.  The reference bitcoin client, has received multiple releases and
is now known as Bitcoin-Qt.

\begin{itemize} \item The need for bitcoin \item What this paper is about - The
    research on bitcoin, which has focussed on Anonymity, Economics and
    proposals for improvements \end{itemize}

\section{Background} The core of any currency is to allow users to participate
in transactions that result in the transfer of value between the participants.
If Alice wishes to send some value to Bob, Bob will need to know that Alice has
the funds to send that transaction and has not sent that money to anyone else.
This problem is easily solvable in the physical world where the expense to
duplicate or create more of a resource can be ensured to be more than the value
of the item: for example creating counterfeit paper currency or creating a
commodity like gold.  This property of physical goods brings with it another
problem: moving the value over a distance, this can be very expensive especially
with highly massive, solid commodities like gold.  A digital currency aims to
recreate the difficulty in duplication, while taking advantage of the ease of
transfer that digital information brings.

Some solutions to these problems have already been discussed in the scientific
literature: all systems assume a trusted central authority as part of the
protocol. Usually to maintain a record of transactions performed and to mint
currency.

\subsection{Central Banking} TODO: Systems such as PayPal or Facebook Credits in
which only the central authority of the currency can create transactions.

\subsection{Unique Token} Medvinsky and Neuman\cite{netcash} discuss one solution,
NetCash with a similar protocol implemented under the name opencoin, uses a
unique token held by both the central authority and the owner of the coin. To
create currency the user and central authority agree on a unique token in
exchange for some currency or resource. When that user wishes to transact value
to another, they simply send the token to the other user.  To verify that the
transaction is legitimate, other receiving users send the token to the exchange,
to be swapped for a new spendable token meaning the original token can no longer
be spent. One issue with this protocol is the central authority cannot be
independently verified, as such the authority could choose to deny knowledge of
a token, or allow multiple users to claim the same token.

\subsection{Digital signature chain} An alternative solution proposed operates
``using a chain of digital signatures'' where transaction messages are created
using public key cryptography and the chain of digital signatures can be traced
back to the original creation of the unit of value. For example Alice
cryptographically signs a message ``I pay 5 coins to Bob''.  This system
presents the same problems as before regarding value distribution and potential
double spending i.e. how does Bob know that Alice has the value to start with
and how does Bob know that this value hasn't already been spent. In [Cite]
proposal the solution is to involve a central authority that hosts a public copy
of every transaction sent and is trusted to create and allocate value fairly
such as on receipt of a payment in fiat currency, or some resource.

Bob can verify that Alice was given some value from a chain of transactions
leading back to the central authority where the value is assumed to be created
and can subtract the total value of Alice’s spent transactions to determine if
the transaction sent to Bob is valid.  While this system prevents the central
authority from forcing a user to spend money, unlike token based digital
currencies or central banking, the central authority still holds a significant
position of power and thus demands a great deal of trust from the user that the
authority is both benign and secure. For example the central authority could
cooperate with, or more simply act as, a user attempting to achieve a double
payment attack by showing different views to different users. Because the
authority is the sole party involved in the minting process that authority can
create more units of currency.

[diagram of a chain of value movement]

[diagram of double spend]

In both systems where a central authority exists, while it may be reasonable to
trust some agent for the purpose of authenticating the ownership of value that
authority may act in a way outside of the agents’ control.  The server hosting
the system could be compromised either through technical means or through the
use of force, as in the case of E-Gold.

\begin{itemize} \item Show different views to different users, resulting in a
        double spend \item Allocate money unfairly or unexpectedly, with
        excessive minting or ``easing'' \item Be shut down by a government \item
        Cryptographic signing \item Transactions as cryptographic signatures
        \item The double spending problem \item HashCash \end{itemize}

\subsection{The Bitcoin Protocol} Bitcoin extends the digital signature chain
[hyperref] based transaction system and replaces the central authority with a
distributed, decentralized time stamp consensus that is used to agree on the
order that transactions occurred in.  Any user can, on receipt of a transaction,
query the time stamp server and determine if that transaction has been
invalidated by a prior transaction.

\subsection{Distributed Transaction Validation}
The time stamp server creates a chain of blocks of transactions, each referring
to the previous by hash value.  The transactions to be included in the chain are
discovered when peers broadcast them into a peer discovery network that operates
in a similar manner to a BitTorrent swarm.  Any user can contribute to this
chain of blocks, but before another peer will relay it to others, it must meet a
``proof-of-work'' requirement: the SHA256 hash value of each block must not
exceed a value determined by the current ‘difficulty’.  Because the SHA2 hashing
function has been designed such that the value of an amount of data is
unpredictable and evenly distributed in the range of the function, the only way
for a participant to create data with a hash value below the difficulty limit is
to repeatedly try different input data
values\footnote{\url{http://blog.ezyang.com/2011/06/the-cryptography-of-bitcoin/}}.
Transaction block data can be altered without changing the transaction semantics
because the block format includes a ‘nonce’ field for this purpose.

Because each block refers to the previous block, ``To modify a past block, an
attacker would have to redo the proof-of-work of the block and all blocks after
it''.  As more blocks are created the more expensive it is for any group to
alter the consensus reached by the peer network.  Because the proof of work
system is computationally expensive an incentive, other than the increased
certainty of any transaction a user has previously received will remain valid,
is included.  While all the transactions included in a block must have at least
the input value as output value, one transaction can be included with no input
and an output dependant on the total number of blocks due to halve every 4
years. Currently this reward is 25 bitcoins. This reward is paid for by the
consensual deflation of every participants held bitcoin. This process also
serves to solve the distribution problem of digital currencies.

\begin{itemize} \item Public keys and addresses.  \item How bitcoin aims to
        solve the double spending problem without a central authority \item
            Bitcoin clients present public keys to the user as ``addresses'',
            these are the result of the hash of a public key and a checksum.
            Similar in purpose as the Luhn check on credit cards, this process
        is used to reduce the likelihood of losing bitcoin to a public key with
    no paired private key by preventing mistakes when entered into clients by
hand.  \item Transaction types \item Change address.  The change address is
always a new address \item TestNet bitcoin \end{itemize}

\section{Anonymity} As part of the Bitcoin protocol, all transactions must be
broadcast publicly however, Satoshi maintains that ``privacy can still be
maintained by breaking the flow of information [...] by keeping public keys
anonymous''.  Each Bitcoin address can be considered one pseudonym of many of
the owner of the associated private key, because each person can own multiple
Bitcoin addresses in a wallet. Satoshi asserts that because of this disconnect
between user and address it is difficult to associate a particular transaction
with a particular user.

\subsection{Taint Analysis} Harrigan and Reid, considers the feasibility of
maintaining this pseudonymity in practise, by investigating the multiple input
semantics of the Bitcoin transaction format\cite{reid-anon}. 

Harrigan and Reid argue that any key taking part in this process was in a single
wallet, and thus owned by a single user. Therefore by combining the knowledge of
how keys are grouped into wallets with knowledge from outside the protocol other
inferences can be made, with the aim to determine the identity of the user
behind the wallet, and thus any transactions made.

Harrigan and Reid aim to de-anonymize a user using two phases.  First to
contract the publicly available, as published in the blockchain, ``transaction
network'' to a ``user network'' by determining groups of addresses that appear to
behave as part of a single wallet.  The second phase is to  link that group
using publicly available ``Off-Network Information'' linking addresses to keys,
eg by crawling the web for forum posts with including both user-names and
addresses.

Multi-input transactions are used to distinguish the behavior of a group of keys
from any other in the transaction network.  Andoulaki et al add to this a further
heuristic of ``Shadow Addresses'' to associate newly created addresses with
users\cite{eval-priv}.

\subsubsection{Multi-input Transactions}
In the Bitcoin transaction format, if a user cannot fulfil the value of a
transaction by spending a single previous output, the client will combine
multiple inputs, or previous outputs, where the user has the ability to fulfill
their spend conditions.  When combined the Bitcoin client must fulfill the spend
conditions of all of the outputs, usually the conditions result in the requirement to sign
the transaction with all of the participating private keys.  ``It is therefore
straightforward to conclude that if these BTCs are (spendable) by different addresses,
then the input addresses belong to the same user''\cite{eval-priv}.

[diagram of multi input transactions grouping wallets]

\subsubsection{``Shadow'' Addresses}


\begin{itemize} \item Briefly mentions mixers and ``repeatedly sending fractions
        of their Bitcoins to themselves using multiple (newly generated)
    public-keys'' Although that does not defeat taint analysis as these can be
assumed to be owned by the originating wallet until otherwise linked.  \item
    Change addresses, bug that lead to them being in the same position each
    time.  Androulaki et al, note that change addresses are clearly
    distinguishable by being the only newly generated address in the output of
    the transaction.  However it is recommended to newly generate a Bitcoin
    address for each receiving transaction.  \end{itemize}

\subsection{Taint Analysis Disruption}

\subsubsection{ZeroCoin} Miers et al.
propose a solution to the de-anonymization proposed in taint analysis, by
defining new transaction types that take advantage of zero knowledge
proofs\cite{zerocoin}.  \subsubsection{Multi-Input Transaction}

In his forum post, ``I taint rich!'', Bitcoin developer Gregory (gmaxwell)
Maxwell describes a process to disrupt ``brain-dead automated (taint)
analysis''.  Because the conditions of a set of previous outputs can be
fulfilled partially, multiple users can cooperate to create a single transaction
that causes their public keys to appear linked in a single wallet to taint
analysis, without revealing their private keys to the group.  As such Satoshi’s
claim, and key assumption in Harrigan and Reid’s paper, that ``Some linking is
still unavoidable with multi-input transactions, which necessarily reveal that
their inputs were owned by the same user'' is wrong\cite{satoshi}.

While in the example described it is clear how the addresses are really linked,
due to the cooperation being performed on a public forum, the same address used
on the input and output and the fact that that address is the vanity address,
``1gmaxw''. The complexity of this process means it is not well used.

For a serious attempt to disrupt taint analysis the taint disrupting transaction
must have the following properties:  Each output must be to an address that has
not been used previously. There must be an even number of bitcoin sent to each
output. The transaction must not be traceable to a network address.  The
communication during cooperation must not be intercepted. The communication must
not be shown to have taken place.  At this point, from a view of the blockchain,
the two wallets appear linked, under the multi-transaction heuristic and change
address heuristic. From the view of the cooperating peers, however, it is clear
the true owner of the output keys as such this process must take place
repeatedly between many different peers.

\subsubsection{A design for an automatic taint analysis disruption}

\begin{itemize} \item Using the Tor hidden service \item Some sort of central or
        distributed registration system for peers \item A peer may connect to
            any other peer, each peer creates a new address, they both determine
            an equal amount of bitcoin to send. And create a multi-input
            transaction from both users, split equally into the new addresses.
\item Assuming that the ownership of originating addresses was known publicly
the ownership of the two new addresses is now 50/50.  \item Diagram \item Repeat
the process \end{itemize}

\section{Improvements To the Bitcoin system}

\begin{itemize} \item What is a forking change?  \item What improvements are
possible \item Not strictly fully decentralized, concept of consensus,
checkpointing.  \item The hash power voting system \end{itemize}


% An example of a floating figure using the graphicx package.  Note that \label
    % must occur AFTER (or within) \caption.  For figures, \caption should occur
    % after the \includegraphics.  Note that IEEEtran v1.7 and later has special
    % internal code that is designed to preserve the operation of \label within
    % \caption even when the captionsoff option is in effect. However, because
    % of
% issues like this, it may be the safest practice to put all your \label just
    % after \caption rather than within \caption{}.
%
% Reminder: the "draftcls" or "draftclsnofoot", not "draft", class option should
    % be used if it is desired that the figures are to be displayed while in
    % draft mode.
%
%\begin{figure}[!t] \centering \includegraphics[width=2.5in]{myfigure} where an
    %.eps filename suffix will be assumed under latex, and a .pdf suffix will be
    %assumed for pdflatex; or what has been declared via
    %\DeclareGraphicsExtensions.  \caption{Simulation Results.} \label{fig_sim}
    %\end{figure}

% Note that IEEE typically puts floats only at the top, even when this results
    % in a large percentage of a column being occupied by floats.  However, the
    % Computer Society has been known to put floats at the bottom.


% An example of a double column floating figure using two subfigures.  (The
    % subfig.sty package must be loaded for this to work.) The subfigure \label
    % commands are set within each subfloat command, and the \label for the
    % overall figure must come after \caption.  \hfil is used as a separator to
    % get equal spacing.  Watch out that the combined width of all the
    % subfigures on a line
% do not exceed the text width or a line break will occur.
%
%\begin{figure*}[!t] \centering \subfloat[Case
    %I]{\includegraphics[width=2.5in]{box}% \label{fig_first_case}} \hfil
    %\subfloat[Case II]{\includegraphics[width=2.5in]{box}%
    %\label{fig_second_case}} \caption{Simulation results.} \label{fig_sim}
    %\end{figure*}
%
% Note that often IEEE papers with subfigures do not employ subfigure captions
    % (using the optional argument to \subfloat[]), but instead will
    % reference/describe all of them (a), (b), etc., within the main caption.


% An example of a floating table. Note that, for IEEE style tables, the \caption
    % command should come BEFORE the table. Table text will default to
    % \footnotesize as IEEE normally uses this smaller font for tables.  The
    % \label must come after \caption as always.
%
%\begin{table}[!t] % increase table row spacing, adjust to taste
    %\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.3} if using array.sty, it might be a good
    %idea to tweak the value of \extrarowheight as needed to properly center the
    %text within the cells \caption{An Example of a Table} \label{table_example}
    %\centering % Some packages, such as MDW tools, offer better commands for
%making tables % than the plain LaTeX2e tabular which is used here.
    %\begin{tabular}{|c||c|} \hline One & Two\\ \hline Three & Four\\ \hline
    %\end{tabular} \end{table}


% Note that IEEE does not put floats in the very first column - or typically
    % anywhere on the first page for that matter. Also, in-text middle ("here")
    % positioning is not used. Most IEEE journals use top floats exclusively.
    % However, Computer Society journals sometimes do use bottom floats - bear
    % this in mind when choosing appropriate optional arguments for the
    % figure/table
% environments.  Note that, LaTeX2e, unlike IEEE journals, places footnotes
    % above bottom floats. This can be corrected via the \fnbelowfloat command
    % of the stfloats package.



\section{Conclusion}
